docs: add task page for setting up metamonitoring (#6605)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/tasks/metamonitoring.md

  }
}
```

## Meta-monitoring logs

The [logging][] block defines the logging behavior of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.

In this task, you will use the [logging][] block to forward {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s logs to a compatible component.
The block is specified without a label and can only be provided once per configuration file.

1. Add the following `logging` configuration block to the top level of your configuration file.

   ```river
   logging {
     level    = "<LOG_LEVEL>"
     format   = "<LOG_FORMAT>"
     write_to = [<LOGS_RECEIVER_LIST>]
   }
   ```

   Replace the following:
   - _`<LOG_LEVEL>`_: The log level to use for {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s logs. If the attribute isn't set, it defaults to `info`.
   - _`<LOG_FORMAT>`_: The log format to use for {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s logs. If the attribute isn't set, it defaults to `logfmt`.
   - _`<LOGS_RECEIVER_LIST>`_: A comma-delimited list of component receivers to forward logs to.
     For example, to send to an existing processing component, use `loki.process.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.
     Similarly, to send data to an existing relabeling component, use `loki.relabel.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.

>      To use data in the OTLP format, you can send data to an existing converter component like `otelcol.receiver.loki.OTEL.receiver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     To use data in the OTLP format, you can send data to an existing converter component, like `otelcol.receiver.loki.OTEL.receiver`.
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/tasks/setup-metamonitoring/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/tasks/setup-metamonitoring/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/tasks/setup-metamonitoring/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/tasks/setup-metamonitoring/
# Previous page aliases for backwards compatibility:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/getting-started/setup-metamonitoring/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/getting-started/setup-metamonitoring/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/getting-started/setup-metamonitoring/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/getting-started/setup-metamonitoring/

> - ../getting-started/setup-metamonitoring/ # /docs/agent/latest/flow/getting-started/setup-metamonitoring/

Reviewer: We can remove ALL of these aliases. These are only required if we move/rename a topic that has already been published. This is a new topic... so no aliases required.

Author: Thanks, TIL!

canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/tasks/setup-metamonitoring/
description: Learn how to set up meta-monitoring for Grafana Agent Flow
title: Set up meta-monitoring
weight: 200
---

# Set up meta-monitoring

> {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} can be configured to collect its own telemetry and forward it to the backend of your choosing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} to collect its own telemetry and forward it to the backend of your choosing.
```

> This topic describes how to:
> 
> * Collect and forward the Agent's own metrics, logs and traces data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to collect and forward {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s metrics, logs and traces data.
```

## Before you begin

* Identify where {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} writes its own telemetry data.
* Be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.

## Meta-monitoring metrics

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} exposes its internal metrics using the Prometheus exposition format.

In this task, you will use the [prometheus.exporter.self][] and [prometheus.scrape][] components to scrape {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s  internal metrics and forward it to compatible {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} components.

1. Add the following `prometheus.exporter.self` component to your configuration. The component accepts no arguments.

   ```river
   prometheus.exporter.self "<SELF_LABEL>" {
   }
   ```

1. Add the following `prometheus.scrape` component to your configuration file.
   ```river
   prometheus.scrape "<SCRAPE_LABEL>" {
     targets    = prometheus.exporter.<SELF_LABEL>.default.targets
     forward_to = [<METRICS_RECEIVER_LIST>]
   }
   ```

   Replace the following:
   - _`<SELF_LABEL>`_: The label for the component such as `default` or `metamonitoring`. The label must be unique across all `prometheus.exporter.self` components in the same configuration file.

>    - _`<SCRAPE_LABEL>`_: The label for the scrape component such as `default`. Again, the label you use must be unique across all `prometheus.scrape` components in the same configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - _`<SCRAPE_LABEL>`_: The label for the scrape component such as `default`. The label must be unique across all `prometheus.scrape` components in the same configuration file.
```

   - _`<METRICS_RECEIVER_LIST>`_: A comma-delimited list of component receivers to forward metrics to.

>      For example, to send to an existing remote write component use `prometheus.remote_write.WRITE_LABEL.receiver`. Similarly, to send data to an existing relabeling component, use `prometheus.relabel.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     For example, to send to an existing remote write component, use `prometheus.remote_write.WRITE_LABEL.receiver`.
     Similarly, to send data to an existing relabeling component, use `prometheus.relabel.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.
```

     To use data in the OTLP format, you can send data to an existing converter component like `otelcol.receiver.prometheus.OTEL.receiver`.

The following example demonstrates configuring a possible sequence of components.

```river
prometheus.exporter.self "default" {
}

prometheus.scrape "metamonitoring" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.self.default.targets
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
  endpoint {
    url = "http://mimir:9009/api/v1/push"
  }
}
```

## Meta-monitoring logs

The [logging][] block defines the logging behavior of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.

> In this task you will use the [logging][] block to forward {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s own logs to a compatible component. The block is specified without a label and can only be provided once per configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this task, you will use the [logging][] block to forward {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s logs to a compatible component. The block is specified without a label and can only be provided once per configuration file.
```

> 1. Add the following `logging` configuration block to the top-level of your configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following `logging` configuration block to the top level of your configuration file.
```

   ```river
   logging {
     level    = "<LOG_LEVEL>"
     format   = "<LOG_FORMAT>"
     write_to = [<LOGS_RECEIVER_LIST>]
   }
   ```

   Replace the following:

>    - _`<LOG_LEVEL>`_: The log level to use for {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s own logs. If the attribute is not set, it defaults to `info`.
>    - _`<LOG_FORMAT>`_: The log format to use for {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s own logs. If the attribute is not set, it defaults to `logfmt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - _`<LOG_LEVEL>`_: The log level to use for {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s own logs. If the attribute isn't set, it defaults to `info`.
   - _`<LOG_FORMAT>`_: The log format to use for {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s logs. If the attribute isn't set, it defaults to `logfmt`.
```

   - _`<LOGS_RECEIVER_LIST>`_: A comma-delimited list of component receivers to forward logs to.

>      For example, to send to an existing processing component use `loki.process.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`. Similarly, to send data to an existing relabeling component, use `loki.relabel.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     For example, to send to an existing processing component use `loki.process.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.
     Similarly, to send data to an existing relabeling component, use `loki.relabel.PROCESS_LABEL.receiver`.
```

     To use data in the OTLP format, you can send data to an existing converter component like `otelcol.receiver.loki.OTEL.receiver`.

> The following example demonstrates configuring the config block and sending to a compatible component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates configuring the configuration block and sending to a compatible component.
```

```river
logging {
  level    = "warn"  
  format   = "json"
  write_to = [loki.write.default.receiver]
}

loki.write "default" {
    endpoint {
        url = "http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push"
    }
}

```

## Meta-monitoring traces

The [tracing][] block defines the tracing behavior of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.

> In this task you will use the [tracing][] block to forward {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} internal traces to a compatible component. The block is specified without a label and can only be provided once per configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this task you will use the [tracing][] block to forward {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} internal traces to a compatible component.
The block is specified without a label and can only be provided once per configuration file.
```

> 1. Add the following `tracing` configuration block to the top-level of your configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following `tracing` configuration block to the top level of your configuration file.
```

   ```river
   tracing {
     sampling_fraction = <SAMPLING_FRACTION>
     write_to          = [<TRACES_RECEIVER_LIST>]
   }
   ```

   Replace the following:

>    - _`<SAMPLING_FRACTION>`_: The fraction of traces to keep. If the attribute is not set, it defaults to `0.1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - _`<SAMPLING_FRACTION>`_: The fraction of traces to keep. If the attribute isn't set, it defaults to `0.1`.
```

   - _`<TRACES_RECEIVER_LIST>`_: A comma-delimited list of component receivers to forward traces to.
     For example, to send to an existing OpenTelemetry exporter component use `otelcol.exporter.otlp.EXPORT_LABEL.input`.

> The following example demonstrates configuring the config block and sending to a compatible component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates configuring the configuration block and sending to a compatible component.
```
